blog: GraphQLConf 2026 announcement (#2321)
graphql/graphql.github.io: src/pages/blog/2026-01-29-graphqlconf-2026-announcement.mdx

---
title: "GraphQLConf 2026: May 6-7 in Menlo Park"
tags: ["announcements"]
date: 2026-01-29
byline: GraphQL Foundation
---
GraphQLConf will return to its roots in the Bay Area on May 6-7, 2026 at the Meta office campus in Menlo Park, CA.  The Bay Area has always played a special role in the GraphQL story. From the earliest internal experiments to the first open-source release and initial meetups, this region helped define what GraphQL would become.  Bringing GraphQLConf back to the area is an opportunity to reflect on how far the ecosystem has grown while looking ahead to what’s next.

More details can be found on the [conference website](https://graphql.org/conf/2026/).

## Thank you, Meta!

We are deeply grateful to Meta for their generosity in making both their facilities and their event support team available to GraphQL users.  GraphQLConf is an event run in service of the community, and support like this allows us to focus our resources on what matters most: creating a welcoming, inclusive, and high-quality experience for everyone who builds with GraphQL.  We couldn’t do this without partners who believe in the long-term health of the ecosystem.

## Accessible to all

> Conference registration will be essentially free for attendees.  At the same time, we know that no-shows can make planning difficult and prevent others from attending.  We’re currently working on a ticketing model that encourages attendance while keeping the event accessible.  More details will be shared once the model is finalized.  Our goal is simple: keep GraphQLConf open to everyone, try to offset some expenditures, and respect the community’s time and the generosity of our hosts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This year, conference registration will be essentially free for attendees!

However, it's well known that free tickets can lead to increased no-shows, which in turn can make planning difficult and prevent others from attending. We’re currently working on a ticketing model that encourages attendance while keeping the event accessible. More details will be shared once the model is finalized; our goal is simple: keep GraphQLConf open to everyone, try to offset some expenditures, and respect the community’s time and the generosity of our hosts.
```

One idea we’re exploring is a suggested, but entirely voluntary, donation at registration. More details will be shared once the model is finalized.  Our goal is simple: keep GraphQLConf open to everyone, try to offset some expenditures, and respect the community’s time and the generosity of our hosts.

## What to Expect

GraphQL continues to evolve rapidly, and GraphQLConf 2026 will reflect the breadth and depth of the modern ecosystem.

Major themes are expected to include:  
* AI and GraphQL
* UI and product development
* Backend architecture
* Security and trust
* Federation, composite schemas, and distributed systems
* Developer experience
* Tooling, performance, and operations
* Getting started with GraphQL
* …and much more

Whether you’re building client applications, designing schemas, operating federated graphs at scale, or exploring how GraphQL fits into an AI-driven future, GraphQLConf is the place to connect and learn.  And the vibes are sure to be great if prior conferences are any indication\!

> Another editorial note: the conference will be two days long instead of three, which is a change from prior years.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This year the conference will be two days instead of three, a change from prior years; we're hoping to organize more informal get-togethers for the Working Group, TSC, Board and Ambassadors before/after the conference — details to follow.
```

## Call for Proposals Is Open

We want to hear from you.

The [Call for Proposals (CFP)](https://sessionize.com/graphqlconf-2026/) is now open, and we encourage submissions from across the community — practitioners, maintainers, newcomers, and long-time contributors alike.

If you’ve learned something the hard way, built something interesting, or have a perspective that could help others, we’d love to see your talk.

## A compelling sponsor experience

GraphQLConf exists because of community and industry support.

The GraphQL Foundation is actively seeking sponsors who want to invest in the GraphQL ecosystem and help make this event accessible to developers around the world.

Sponsorship supports:  
* Event production and accessibility  
* Speaker travel and diversity programs  
* Recording and publishing talks  
* Community infrastructure beyond the conference

> We have options for every budget level for your team, starting at just $1,000 USD.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have options for every budget level for your team, starting at **just $1,000 USD**.
```
